so I just went through quitting caffeine
again quitting caffeine is not something
you do only once in life all right not
in my case you know I would I prefer
ideally to consume zero caffeine and at
the moment I'm consuming zero caffeine
but there are many you know bumps in the
road in life that can force you to get
back on the drug even when you regard it
as a drug even when you regard yourself
as someone who would ideally like to be
consuming absolutely zero caffeine I
don't think I've told this story before
it's possible I did when I was living in
Taiwan and I just broken up with my wife
and I just been separated from my
daughter
I was keeping very very close eye on my
own moods from day to day and they sound
like a funny thing to say but when
you're going through a kind of extremely
traumatic experience you would be
advised to keep an eye on yourself and
know okay all right that sounds stupid
you have to keep a very close watch on
how you are feeling and even what you're
thinking about going through very real
trauma of being separate from my
daughter and that's separation I mean
it's partly intellectual is partly
emotional it's partly instinctual like
you're separated from your daughter
after spending 24 hours a day 7 day a
week with her for the first year of her
life you wake up in the middle of the
night and it's not fear it's not dread
it's pure instinct of one to go and take
care you know you have these very very
ancient entirely evolutionary instincts
that rouse you out of bed that that kick
you around when you're going through
that basically a process of withdrawal
so I was keeping a really close eye on
myself and I remember already then it
was already anti caffeine but I was
vegan and I also there was almost
nothing I could buy at the local
convenience stores on the one hand
because it was vegan the other hand I
can't drink the kind of soft drink which
is like 90 percent sugar and in Taiwan
obviously there's stuff like Coke and
Pepsi etc but they also have their own
varieties of juice
that are really really high in sugar you
know
juice drinks whatever you want to say I
couldn't forgetting that stuff so I
started buying their bottled tea that
has no sugar added to it and I started
buying it very specifically because I
would leave my house almost all my life
there in Taiwan at that time was inside
my house the house that I had rented to
raise my daughter in but as you may know
at this breaker with my wife so I would
buy this bottled tea and walk up the
nearest mountain as is usually the case
the word Melton is an exaggeration it's
a hill it's a steep hill but it gives
you a view of the whole city and I was
most of the time I was the only person
under 60 years old doing that what's
know I should there were young people
like boyfriends and girlfriends would go
up this is a beautiful part computer
play see but the majority people in that
park walk in the Hill were elderly
people who like myself we're trying to
keep in shape by by going up the going
up the hill started drinking bottled tea
I guess one bottle a day it's like
drinking a bottle of coke except it's
tea with no sugar added it's vegan it's
the only option I had it's hot as hell
you're in the tropics and then you know
I came to a weekend where I think I
think let's say it was two weeks let's
say for just two weeks I was drinking
one bottle of tea again a day pardon me
for just two weeks I was drinking one
bottle of tea a day going up the going
up the hill and then when I stopped I
went into full caffeine withdrawal
unbelievable and because I was watching
myself so here it was like what's wrong
with me why do I feel so awful why do I
feel so terrible so it was really
keeping track of you know what I was
thinking what I was feeling from day to
day really um you know really kind of
being extra mindful of of every little
thing going on in my head
god then when the caffeine withdrawal
hits you it can feel a lot like clinical
depression it can feel like you're
suddenly going into depression just have
these horrible side effects and you
realize I mean caffeine it's something
that's going on in the background of so
many of our lives it's something that
we're
boring so much of the time but you can
really easily develop caffeine
dependency even just short term in two
weeks like that unbelievable anyway you
know what clicked I realized oh my god
it's not that I'm depressed it's not
that I'm suddenly more upset about being
separate from my daughter it's just it's
just the the impact of the you know
caffeine withdrawal anyway I was I
started quitting caffeine this time so
here in Kunming I started using caffeine
because of construction noise outside my
window you guys may have noticed that I
may have been hearing that all this time
you know very often when I'm recording
you can hear the noise of the subway
being built outside my window there's a
lot of noise was having a lot of trouble
getting any sleep at all there were
other things interrupting my sleep so I
started using caffeine for that reason
again and again you know when your
attitude is you want to minimize
caffeine my point was not that I was
gleefully drinking tons of caffeine
every day but I was using caffeine as a
drug and as a drug I'd prefer not to be
using so anyway last Monday
one week ago now I decided okay that's
enough and the the construction at the
window seems to have gotten a bit better
okay now is the time in terms of a whole
bunch of other things okay I'm gonna I'm
gonna eliminate caffeine again then
Donald Trump got elected honestly on the
day on the day Donald Trump got elected
I decided to I decided to hit the
caffeine I was the day it happened he's
remember I'm in a different time zone so
for me it was my lunch break when I
found out Donald Trump had won and I was
just shocked I've already made videos
talking about that but Wow and it's it's
not even that I particularly think
Donald Trump is gonna be a much worse
president than Hillary Clinton I was
just shocked um and that day I decided
okay I probably had the equivalent of
three cups of coffee one was just a
large cup of coffee like a Starbucks
sized coffee so I had two cups but I
would count it as three cups of coffee
and I went to the gym and you know tried
to feel better and I streamed with you
guys a lot too
it did it made me feel better you know
coming on you know and talking to people
the day of the election the day and my
time so I think from
you guys it was the next morning did you
know it did help it didn't make me feel
better so anyway this weekend just past
Saturday and Sunday I was again kickin
caffeine and just the disruptions to
your sleep cycle oh look it's awful but
you know would my life be better if I
had not played with caffeine and all was
here in Kunming
you got to make those hard decisions you
know I I hate it couldn't you know
caffeine is a drug I didn't want to
compromise with it I didn't want to let
it back into my life but you're in a
situation where you're paying thousands
of dollars for an education in this case
in education the Chinese language and
you've got to decide if I feel like you
know I'm not getting the value out of
this education because I can't get
enough sleep at night because I'm
falling asleep in the middle of the day
which was happening all the time before
I got on the caffeine I would be in
class and then we'd have a break during
class and I'd come to my room and pass
out so whatever three o'clock in the
afternoon 11 o'clock in the morning I
was passing out at all hours of the day
and you know just a couple times the
teacher came and knocked on my door and
said hey what happened to you oh you
collapsed you fell asleep you know so if
you're fighting against fragmentary
sleep that way you know this is your one
opportunity to learn Chinese the
language you've paid the money made the
commitment that temptation to get on the
caffeine you know is becomes
irresistible and I remember talking to
one guy one vegan online and he said
simply his reason for using caffeine was
when he woke up in the morning he didn't
want to be uh he didn't want to be
grouchy with his kids because you know
his kids would wake up and be full of
energy so he'd get on the caffeine
anyway this video is recorded while I am
once again once again going through
caffeine withdrawal or going through the
adjustment after after quitting caffeine
and you know I mean I can say I hope
it's the last time I quit caffeine that
doesn't really count for much I think
the reality is again if I find myself
living in circumstances where I can't
sleep or where I need to unnaturally
force my sleep cycle to come into sync
she definitely can imagine with jet lag
jet lag could be can be pretty rough I
would use caffeine again for
but I would also look for my first
opportunity to quit using caffeine again